---
author: "Coleton O'Donnell"
title: 'Music Review #2: "kodak moment" by dltzk on Frailty'
date: "2021-11-23"
ShowToc: false
tags: ["music review"]
---

[Track](https://youtu.be/AGbXPOzrw0s)

The worst album I have ever had the displeasure of hearing, the worst album of the thousands of albums I have considered, is *Angelic 2 the Core* by actor Corey Feldman. It is terrible, repetitive, gimmicky, and in certain parts makes literally no sense. Littering the tracklist are these skits based on Charlie's Angels and I can't even put into words how unbearable it is. The album is a 0/10. Why do I bring up a terrible album when I am about to rave about an album I find amazing? Because I am raising a question: what ***is*** music? There is a lot of debate about this, but in my opinion, music is expression and art in a sonic sense. Certain elements of music we consider appealing are consequences of being human, but music isn't locked to these norms. No, the norms follow music out of necessity, out of the need for the art to stick in the mainstream. *Angelic 2 the Core* follows all of the norms for music but falls short in every aspect. So what makes a piece of music good? It is not based on norms, no it is based on the depth of the expression, the production, the care taken by the artist to craft the piece. The quality of music is the message of the track either through the cage of lyricism or the grasp of a moving instrumental. Music is beautiful because it is art.

dltzk (pronounced Delete Zeke) is a 17-year-old Noisepop/Hyperpop producer. Noise is obviously a very large part of the production and kodak moment really highlights this quality. *Frailty* as an album pulls a lot of Emo elements within the lyrics. Really can feel that early 2000s Emo within the lyrics and the singing and as a 2000s kid that definitely presses the nostalgia button. The first part of "kodak moment" features some routine emo lyrics and then builds up into the two instrumental parts. The first of the two instrumentals, part two, is a cascading wall of noise and screams that is just fun to listen to, especially the build-up and then pay off. Part two ends with this just subwoofer blowing bass segment and then silence. Part three starts a few seconds later, and really acts as an outro and a juxtaposition to the dramatic and depressing lyrics of part one and the incredibly abrasive noise section of part two. I am almost 100% certain that this instrumental samples some DS sounds. Part three sounds like a track off a cute PS2 game and I love it. It really complements the previous two parts and acts as a great closing. Noise as a genre takes a lot of skill to work in, and dltzk for being so young has already crafted one of the best Noisepop records of all time. To say that he is talented would be an understatement. Noise isn't for everyone, but I definitely implore you take a listen to it and keep your mind open. At the very minimum, you tried something new and that is always fun. 

Corey Feldman's *Angelic 2 the Core* might be the worst thing you could possibly ever hear, but in many aspects it has become a bit of a classic for me. This is because it is so bad it loops around to being good. In a way, *Angelic 2 the Core* is Anti-Art, and although not intentional, acts as a profound way to differentiate bland soulless music from deep and thought provoking expression. *Angelic 2 the Core* reminds me how good music is and tests my boundaries for the definition of music by being so absolutely awful. I have to thank Feldman for bestowing this work upon the world because it has led to me becoming more open minded to different forms of music, such as this wonderful track by dltzk. *Angelic 2 the Core* is generic, corny, horribly executed, and down-right horrible, but it is still music. "Frailty" by dltzk is noisy, harsh, abrasive, over the top, unique, and thought-provoking, and it is music and by God is it a wonderful piece of music at that.
