---
author: "Coleton O'Donnell"
title: 'Music Review #7: "Napalm Brain/Scatter Brain" by DJ Shadow on Endtroducing.....'
date: "2021-11-28"
ShowToc: false
tags: ["music review"]
---
[Track](https://youtu.be/_Z7O575ykKI)

The sample is an incredibly powerful tool when used in a track. A track's quality can increase a great deal by the use of samples. Joshua Davis, better known as DJ Shadow, takes this concept to a whole other level in his debut instrumental hip hop album *Endtroducing.....* *Entroducting.....* is a hour and three minute record, composed entirely using samples. DJ Shadow is not only an incredible DJ, Record Producer, and Songwriter, but also an incredible music nerd. He personally owns 60,000 records, some of which land on this album. The vastness of *Endtroducing.....* is something to behold; given that everything you are hearing is sounds manipulated, stretched, looped, isolated, and cut, the sample quantity is quite high. In fact, *Endtroducing.....* is the first record ever made that is solely made up of samples. Limitation breeds some of the greatest exercises of creativity, just as a painter is confined to the lonely region of their canvas, DJ Shadow limits himself to the sonic region of the sample. Thus, the utter beauty of *Endtroducing.....* comes not only by the quality of the music, but the craftsmanship exercised by DJ Shadow both in sample choice as well as sample execution. To this day, 25 years later, no one knows every sample used by DJ Shadow on *Endtroducing.....* but the man himself, and it is safe to assume that he will take this information to the grave. [Taking a glance](https://rateyourmusic.com/list/tommy832/the_endtroducing_sample_pedia/) at the samples known though demonstrates the depth of thought as well as consideration that DJ Shadow put into *Endtroducing.....* It is nothing short of an absolute masterpiece.

*Endtroducing.....* blends elements of jazz, funk, soul, rock, ambient, hip hop, and conversations. The album is worth every second of your time, but for the focus of the analysis I believe that "Napalm Brain/Scatter Brain" is a good place to start. Clocking at nine minutes and twenty-one seconds, the track features what I can describe as an Intro, Act I, Act II, and then Outro. The Intro features a sample from the 1986 film “Aurora Encounter,” and sets the tone for the rest of the song. Act I features a thumping bass line and then cuts in with a sample of Percee P feat. D-Nique – Let The Homocides Begin. The bass and drum enter again, matched now with thunder and then feed into a guitar riff sampled from The Daly-Wilson Big Band - Space Oddysey 2001 as well as some interesting vocals from Tyrannosaurus Rex - Pon a Hill. Soon after, more drums are laid over from Billy Cobham - A Funky Kind of Thing. This culminates with an explosive drum solo that builds into Act II at around four minutes and thirty-three seconds. The drums here are basically only from the Cobham sample laced with some other far simpler drums, as far as I can detect. Finally, the last sample I know of is used further down the track to lace some Synth Violin (?) from Charles Bernstein - Moment of Truth/Ghetto Shakedown. This sample is the last I can detect when listening to the track, and from what I can garner. After lacing this final sample, the track begins to decompose until the Bernstein sample is the only one left, acting as the Outro. What I find amazing about the track is the shift of tone between the four parts, as well as the almost optimistic feeling you are left feeling after listening (due in part by the Bernstein sample.) This is where DJ Shadow's genius comes into play, as the samples aren't merely laid out in some random order, but are crafted with the message and feeling of the track.

I believe that *Endtroducing.....* shows the power of the sample in music as well as the impressiveness of such musical expression. You are not "stealing" others work, no you are taking it as inspiration to craft something more unique and individual. I view the sample as an instrument unto itself. To actually utilize a sample, let alone create an entire album soley built around samples, requires skill in musical theory and exercise. DJ Shadow is a master musician and is an expert of the sample. *Endtroducing.....* is no stranger to praise though, it is on the Rolling Stone's Top 100 Debut Albums of All Time and scored a perfect 10 on Pitchfork. For good reason, too, *Endtroducing.....* makes the listener almost melt with its sound and is one of the most influential hip hop albums of all time. Historically significant, artistically brilliant, and musically perfect. *Endtroducing.....* is not an album you want to miss.
